LIC’s Saral Jeevan Bima (UIN:512N341V01)
   (A Non-Linked, Non-Par, Individual Pure Risk
          Premium Life Insurance Plan)
LIC’s Saral Jeevan Bima Plan is a Non-Linked, Non-Par,
Individual, Pure Risk Life Insurance plan which provides
financial protection to the insured’s family in case of his/her
unfortunate death during the policy term.
This Plan can be purchased Offline through Licensed agents,
Corporate agents, Brokers and Insurance Marketing Firms as
well as Online directly through website www.licindia.in.
The prospective policyholders are hereby informed that
while making a buying decision reference may be made to
the similar available products for informed decision making
to choose and select the Options/Product which best suits
their needs such as under annuities, ULIPs etc.
Key features of LIC’s Saral Jeevan Bima:
• The plan provides for financial protection
• Flexibility to
   o Choose from Single Premium, Regular Premium and
     Limited Premium Payment
   o Choose the Premium Paying Term of 5 years or 10 years
     for Limited Premium Payment
   o Choose the Policy Term
• Benefit of attractive High Sum Assured Rebate.
1. Benefits
A. Death benefit:
   i) During the Waiting Period of 45 days from the date of
      commencement of Risk:
      This Policy will cover death due to accident only
      during the waiting period of 45 days from the date of
      commencement of risk.
      In case of death of the Life Assured other than due to
      accident during the waiting period, an amount equal
      to 100% of all premiums received excluding taxes,
      if any, shall be paid and the Basic Sum Assured shall
      not be paid.
      In case of death of the Life Assured due to accident
                              2
     during the Waiting Period and provided the Policy is
     in force, the Death Benefit amount payable as a lump
     sum is:
     (1) For regular premium or limited premium payment
         policy, equal to Sum Assured on Death which is the
         highest of:
         (a) 10 times the Annualized Premium, or
         (b) 105% of all premiums paid as on the date of
             death, or
         (c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
     (2) For single premium policy, equal to Sum Assured on
         Death which is the higher of:
         (a) 125% of Single premium or
         (b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
   ii) After the expiry of Waiting Period of 45 days from the
       date of commencement of Risk:
       On death of the Life Assured after the expiry of Waiting
       Period but before the stipulated Date of Maturity
       and provided the Policy is in force, the Death Benefit
       amount payable as a lump sum is:
     (1) For Regular premium or Limited premium payment
         policy, “Sum Assured on Death” which is the
         highest of:
         (a) 10 times of annualized premium; or
         (b) 105% of all the premiums paid as on the date of
             death; or
         (c) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
     (2) For Single premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death”
         which is the higher of:
         (a) 125% of Single Premium or
         (b) Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.
Premiums referred above shall not include any extra
amount chargeable under the policy due to underwriting
decision if any.
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an
amount equal to Basic Sum Assured.
                              3
B. Maturity Benefit:
No Maturity Benefit shall be payable on the Life Assured
surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity.
2. Eligibility Conditions and Other Restrictions:
a) Minimum Basic Sum Assured : Rs. 5,00,000
b) Maximum Basic Sum Assured : Rs. 25,00,000 per life basis
   (The Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of Rs. 50,000/-)
c) Minimum Age at entry            : 18 years (Last Birthday)
d) Maximum Age at entry            : 65 years (Last Birthday)
e) Maximum Maturity Age            : 70 years (Last Birthday)
f) Policy Term:
   Single/Regular/Limited Premium : [5 to 40] years
g) Premium Paying Term :
   Regular Premium                 : Same as policy term
   Limited Premium                 : 5 and 10 years
Single Premium : Premium is payable in
			 lumpsum
3. Payment of Premiums:
Regular Premium, Limited Premium and Single Premium
payment options are allowed under this plan. In case of
Regular Premium and Limited Premium payment option, the
premium can be paid regularly during the premium paying
term with modes of premium payment Yearly, Half-yearly or
Monthly (through ECS/NACH only)
The premium payable will depend on the age at entry of the
life to be assured, policy term, premium paying term and sum
assured chosen.
4. Grace Period:
A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of
yearly or half-yearly premiums and 15 days for monthly
premiums from the date of First Unpaid Premium. During this
period, the policy shall be considered in-force with the risk
cover without any interruption as per the terms of the policy.
If the premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of
grace, the Policy lapses.
                               4
5. Sample Illustrative Premium:
The sample illustrative annual/single premiums for Basic Sum
Assured of Rs 5 lakh for Standard lives under Offline sales are
as under
                                                                 (Amount in Rs)

                                                        Age=30 years
             Premium Payment Option
                                                       Policy Term=20
                      Regular                                   2095
               Limited (PPT=10 years)                           3010
               Limited (PPT=5 years)                            4955
                       Single                               20310
The sample illustrative premium for Basic Sum Assured of
Rs. 10 lakh and Policy Term 25 years for Standard lives under
Offline/ Online sales for different combinations are as under
 Distribution Channel: Offline

    Age              Single             Regular Premium Payment Option
   Mode             Premium         Annual        Half Yearly          Monthly
        25            41,610            3,850       1,965               331
        30            52,260            4,670       2,383               401
        35            70,840            6,110       3,117               525
        40            98,630            8,340       4,254               716
        45           138,230           11,660       5,948               1001


 Distribution Channel: Online

    Age              Single             Regular Premium Payment Option
   Mode             Premium         Annual        Half Yearly          Monthly
        25            40,776            3,574       1,826               308
        30            51,213            4,336       2,216               373
        35            69,421            5,675       2,900               488
        40            96,655            7,749       3,959               667
        45           135,463           10,837       5,536               932

The above premium is exclusive of taxes.
6. Rebates/Loadings:
   The following rebates/loadings shall be applicable:
   i.        Mode Loadings (applicable for Regular and Limited
             Premium payment):
             Yearly mode         - NIL
                                         5
       Half-yearly mode        - 2% of Tabular annual premium
       Monthly (ECS/NACH) - 3% of Tabular annual premium
   ii. High Sum Assured Rebate:
       Basic Sum Assured (B.S.A)         Rebate (Rs.)
        5,00,000 to 9,50,000             Nil
       10,00,000 to 14,50,000		          0.10%o B.S.A.
       15,00,000 to 19,50,000		          0.20%o B.S.A
       20,00,000 and above		             0.25%o B.S.A.
   iii. Rebate under Online Sale:
       Proposal to be completed under online sales without
       any assistance of Agent / intermediary shall be eligible
       for rebate on tabular premium at the following rates:
       Premium Paying Term                        Online Sale
                                               (Rate of rebate)
       Single Premium                              2.00%
       5 to 9 years                                5.00%
       10 to 14 years                              6.00%
       15 years and above                          7.00%
7. Revival of lapsed Policies (Applicable for Regular and
Limited Premium policies):
If premiums are not paid within the grace period then the
policy will lapse. A lapsed policy can be revived within a
period of 5 consecutive complete years from the date of first
unpaid premium and before the date of maturity, as the case
may be. The revival shall be effected on payment of all the
arrears of premium(s) together with interest at a rate which
shall be determined as follows:
The rate of interest applicable for revival of policies during
the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, shall be
compounding half-yearly rate not exceeding 10 year G-Sec
Base/Par yield p.a. compounding half-yearly plus 300 basis
points. The 10 year G-Sec Base/Par yield shall be as at last
trading date of previous financial year.
Accordingly, for 12 months’ period commencing from 1st
May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate for
revival shall be 9.50% p.a. compounding half-yearly.
                               6
In addition to the arrears of premium with interest, proof of
continued insurability of the Life assured may be required
for revival of the discontinued policy. Proof of continued
insurability is the information that may be sought from the
policyholder to decide revival of the policy. This includes
Form of declaration of Good Health, Medical Reports, Special
Reports and any such document as may be called for by the
Corporation, in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of
the Corporation.
The Corporation reserves the right to accept at original
terms, accept with modified terms or decline the revival of a
discontinued policy. The revival of a discontinued policy shall
take effect only after the same is approved by the Corporation
and is specifically communicated to the policyholder.
If a lapsed policy is not revived within the revival period (i.e.
5 consecutive years from the date of first unpaid premium)
but before the Date of Maturity, the policy will automatically
terminate. In case of Regular Premium policies, nothing shall
be payable. However, in case of Limited Premium Payment
policies, the Policy Cancellation Value shall be refunded and
the policy will terminate.
8. Surrender Value:
Surrender value is not applicable under this Plan.
9. Policy Cancellation Value:
   Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable:
   a) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before
      the stipulated date of maturity in case of Single
      premium Policy; or
   b) upon the Policyholder applying for the same before
      the stipulated date of maturity or at the end of revival
      period if the policy is not revived, in case of Limited
      Premium Payment Policies.
   c) The amount payable shall be as follows:
      i) Single Premium Policies:
        		The Policy Cancellation Value acquires immediately
          after receipt of Single Premium and is calculated
          as follows:
                                7
       = 70% × Single Premium paid x Unexpired Policy Term
                                        Original Policy Term
       Single Premium shall be inclusive of any extra
       amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting
       decisions.
   ii) Limited Premium Payment Term: 5 years or 10 years:
       The Policy Cancellation Value acquires if at least two
       (2) consecutive full years’ premiums are paid and is
       calculated as follows:
       = 70% × Total Premiums Paid x Unexpired Policy Term
                                        Original Policy Term
       Total Premiums Paid shall be inclusive of any
       extra amount if charged under the policy due to
       underwriting decisions.
   d) No Policy Cancellation Value shall be payable in
      respect of regular premium policies.
10. Policy Loan:
    No loan will be available under this policy.
11. Forfeiture In Certain Events:
    In case it is found that any untrue or incorrect statement
    is contained in the proposal, personal statement,
    declaration and connected documents or any material
    information is withheld, then and in every such case the
    policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit by virtue
    thereof shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of
    the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
12. Termination Of Policy:
    The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate
    on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events:
    a) The date on which death benefit becomes payable; or
    b) The date on which refund, if applicable, is settled, in
       case of cancellation of policy ; or
    c) The date of maturity; or
    d) On expiry of revival period, if the policy has not been
       revived; or
    e) On payment of free look cancellation amount.
13. Taxes:
    Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans
    by the Government of India or any other constitutional
    Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the
    rate of tax as applicable from time to time.
                               8
    The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing
    rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums
    including any extra amount if charged under the policy
    due to underwriting decisions, which shall be collected
    separately over and above in addition to the premiums
    payable by the policyholder. The amount of tax paid
    shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits
    payable under the plan.
    Regarding Income tax benefits/implications on
    premium(s) paid and benefits payable under this plan,
    please consult your tax advisor for details.
14. Free Look Period:
    If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and
    Conditions” of the policy, the policy may be returned to
    Corporation within 15 30 days from the date of receipt of
    the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document,
    whichever is earlier, stating the reasons of objections.
    On receipt of the same, the Corporation shall cancel the
    policy and return the amount of premium deposited
    after deducting the proportionate risk premium for
    the period of cover and expenses incurred on medical
    examination and stamp duty charges, within 15 days of
    receipt of the request.
15. Suicide Exclusion:
    a) Under Regular/Limited Premium Policy:
    This policy shall be void if the Life Assured commits
    suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of
    commencement of risk, provided the policy is inforce
    or within 12 months from the date of revival and the
    Corporation will not entertain any claim except for 80%
    of the total premiums paid (excluding any extra amount
    if charged under the policy due to underwriting decisions
    and taxes, if any) till the date of death.
    This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed policy as
    nothing is payable under such policies.
    b) Under single Premium Policy:
    This policy shall be void if the Life assured commits
    suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of
    commencement of risk and the Corporation will not
    entertain any claim except 90% of the Single Premium
                              9
    paid excluding any extra amount if charged under the
    policy due to underwriting decisions and taxes, if any.
16. Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
    Of the Corporation:
   The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs)
   at Branch/Divisional/Zonal/Central Office to redress
   grievances of customers. The customers can visit our
   website (https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances)
   for names and contact details of the GROs and other
   information related to grievances.
   For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances
   the Corporation has introduced Customer friendly
   Integrated Complaint Management System through our
   Customer Portal (website) http://www.licindia.in, where
   a registered policy holder can directly register complaint/
   grievance and track its status. Customers can also contact
   at e-mail id co_complaints@ licindia.com for redressal of
   any grievances.
   Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim
   repudiation have the option of referring their cases
   for review to Zonal Office Claims Dispute Redressal
   Committee or Central Office Claims Dispute Redressal
   Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court
   Judge is member of each of the Claims Dispute
   Redressal Committees.
   Of IRDAI:
   In case the customer is not satisfied with the response
   or do not receive the response from us within 15 days,
   then the customer may approach the Policyholder’s
   Protection and Grievance Redressal Department
   through any of the following modes:
    i) Calling Toll Free Number 155255/18004254732(i.e.
       IRDAI Grievance Call Centre-(BIMA BHAROSA
       SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA))
    ii) Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in
    iii) Register the complaint       online    at   https://
         bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/
                             10
    iv) Address for sending the complaint through
        courier/letter:
       General Manager, Policyholders Protection and
       Grievance Redressal Department, Insurance
       Regulatory and Development Authority of
       India, Survey No. 115/1, Financial District,
       Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad-500032,
       Telangana.
   Of Ombudsman:
   For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants
   can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who
   provides for low cost and speedy arbitration to
   customers.

SECTION 45 OF INSURANCE ACT, 1938:
   The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938
   as amended from time to time. shall be applicable. The
   current provision is as under:
    (1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question
        on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three
        years from the date of the policy, i.e. from the date of
        issuance of the policy or the date of commencement
        of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date
        of the rider to the policy, whichever is later.
    (2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at
        any time within three years from the date of issuance
        of the policy or the date of commencement of risk
        or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the
        rider to the policy, whichever is later on the ground
        of fraud:
        Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate
        in writing to the insured or the legal representatives
        or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds
        and materials on which such decision is based.
   Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the
   expression “fraud” means any of the following acts
   committed by the insured or by his agent, with the
   intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer
   to issue a life insurance policy:-
                              11
(a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true
and which the insured does not believe to be true;
(b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured
having knowledge or belief of the fact;
(c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
(d) any such act or omission as the law specially
declares to be fraudulent.
Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud,
unless the circumstances of the case are such that
regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured
or his agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his
silence is, in itself, equivalent to speak.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection
    (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy
    on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that
    the misstatement of or suppression of a material
    fact was true to the best of his knowledge and
    belief or that there was no deliberate intention to
    suppress the fact or that such misstatement of
    or suppression of a material fact are within the
    knowledge of the insurer:
    Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving
    lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is
    not alive.
Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a
contract of insurance shall be deemed for the purpose
of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of
the insurer.
(4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at
    any time within three years from the date of issuance
    of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or
    the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider
    to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that
    any statement of or suppression of a fact material
    to the expectancy of the life of the insured was
    incorrectly made in the proposal or other document
    on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived
    or rider issued:
                           12
    Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate
    in writing to the insured or the legal representatives
    or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds
    and materials on which such decision to repudiate
    the policy of life insurance is based:
    Provided further that in case of repudiation of the
    policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression
    of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud
    the premiums collected on the policy till the date of
    repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal
    representatives or nominees or assignees of the
    insured within a period of ninety days from the date
    of such repudiation.
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, the
misstatement of or suppression of fact shall not be
considered material unless it has a direct bearing on
the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the
insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of
the said fact no life insurance policy would have been
issued to the insured.
(5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from
    calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to
    do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in
    question merely because the terms of the policy are
    adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life
    insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.




                           13
PROHIBITION OF REBATES (SECTION 41 OF INSURANCE ACT,
1938):
1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or
   indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out
   or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind
   of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate
   of the whole or part of the commission payable or any
   rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall
   any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy
   accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed
   in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables
   of the insurer.
2) Any person making default in complying with the
   provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which
   may extend to ten lakh rupees.

    Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable
    to LIC to apply as amended from time to time.

    • This product brochure gives only salient features
      of the plan. For further details please refer to the
      Policy document on our website www.licindia.in or
      contact our nearest Branch Office.
    • It is suggested to read and understand other similar
      products available with LIC of India to assess
      the suitability of the appropriate product as per
      individual needs.

    BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS
    / FRAUDULENT OFFERS
    IRDAI or its officials do not involve in any activities
    of insurance business like selling insurance policies,
    announcing bonus or investment of premiums,
    refunds of amounts. Policyholders or the prospects
    receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a
    police complaint.




                               14
        LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA
“Life Insurance Corporation of India” was established on
1st September, 1956 under Life Insurance Corporation
Act, 1956, with the objective of spreading life insurance
more widely, in particular to the rural areas with a view
to reaching all insurable persons in the country and
providing them adequate financial cover against insured
events. LIC continues to be the important life insurer
even in the liberalized scenario of Indian insurance and
is moving fast on a new growth trajectory surpassing its
own past records. In its existence of over six decades,
LIC has grown from strength to strength in various areas
of operation.




                         15
           Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India
              Central Office,
     Yogakshema, Jeevan Bima Marg,
           Mumbai – 400021.
        Website: www.licindia.in
        Registration Number: 512

                   16
