                               LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA
                      (Established by the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956)
                                        Registration Number: 512

                             LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)
                      (A Non-Par, Non-Linked, Life, Individual, Pure Risk Plan)

                                                 PART-A

Ref: NB                                                               (Address and e-mail id of Branch Office)

Space for Name and Address of Policyholder                               Space for Address and e-mail id of Branch Office
                                                                                Date:

Dear Policyholder,

                                    Re: Your Policy No. _______________

We have pleasure in forwarding herewith the above Policy Document (comprising of Part A to Part G) alongwith
Customer Information Sheet (CIS) and Benefit Illustration, if any. .

We would also like to draw your kind attention to the information mentioned in the Schedule of the Policy and the
benefits available under the Policy.

Some of our plans have certain options available under them. It is important that the options, if any, available
under this plan and mentioned in the Policy Document are noted carefully as it will be helpful to you, in case you
decide to exercise any of the available options. It is also essential to note that such options, if available and
mentioned in the document of this plan has to be exercised in the right manner and during the stipulated time limit
as prescribed herein.

Free Look Period

We would request you to go through the terms and conditions of the Policy and in case you disagree with any of
the terms and conditions, you may return the Policy within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the
electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document, whichever is earlier, stating the reasons for your objections
and disagreement. On receipt of the policy, we shall cancel the same and the amount of Premium deposited by
you shall be refunded to you after deducting the proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and charges for
medical examination (including special reports, if any) and for stamp duty.

In case you have any Complaints/Grievance, you may approach the Branch Office on the address mentioned
above or Grievance Redressal Officer/ Ombudsman, whose addresses are as under:

      Address of Grievance Redressal Officer:


      Address and contact details of Insurance Ombudsman:


If you find any errors in this Policy Document, you may return this Policy for corrections.

Thanking you.

Yours faithfully,


Chief/Sr. Branch Manager

 Agent’s/ Intermediary’s          Agent’s/ Intermediary’sName           Agent’s/Intermediary’s
 Code                                                                   Mobile Number/ Landline Number



LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 1 of 19
We would also like to draw your attention to the following aspects:

1) Change of Address: In case you change your residence, kindly ensure that you inform the change in address to
   the servicing Branch Office.

2) Assignment: Assignment should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as
   amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are enclosed as Annexure-1 for reference.

3) Nomination: Nomination should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as
   amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are enclosed as Annexure-2 for reference.

4) Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of the
   insured event resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time.

5) The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time shall be applicable. The
   current provisions of the same are enclosed as Annexure-3.

6) Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 applicable to LIC to apply as amended from time to time.

7) The approved version of Policy Document in respect of this plan is available on our website:www.licindia.in.

8) Please avail LIC’s e-services. Visit our website: www.licindia.in to enable us to serve you better.

9) For Customer Services, you can contact LIC call centre at +91-02268276827 whose services are available 24*7 in
   English, Hindi and 8 Regional Languages.

These measures will enable us to serve you better.




  LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                Page 2 of 19
                                                       PREAMBLE

THE LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called “the Corporation”) having received a Proposal
along with declaration and the First Premium from the Proposer and the Life Assured named in the Schedule referred
to herein below and the said Proposal and Declaration with the statements contained and referred to therein having
been agreed to by the said Proposer and the Corporation as basis of this assurance do by this Policy agree, in
consideration of and subject to the due receipt of the subsequent premiums (in case of - Limited Premium Payment
policies) as set out in the Schedule, to pay the benefits, but without interest, at the Branch Office of the Corporation
where this Policy is serviced to the person or persons to whom the same is payable in terms of the said Schedule, on
proof to the satisfaction of the Corporation of the benefits having become payable as set out in this Policy Document, of
the title of the said person or persons claiming payment and of the correctness of the age of the Life Assured stated in
the Proposal if not previously admitted.

And it is hereby declared that this Policy of Assurance shall be subject to the Definitions, Benefits, Conditions related to
Servicing Aspects, Other Terms And Conditions and Statutory Provisions printed in this policy and that the Schedule
and every endorsement placed on the Policy by the Corporation shall be deemed part of the Policy.




    LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                Page 3 of 19
                                                 SCHEDULE

DIVISIONAL OFFICE:                                                                 BRANCH OFFICE:
                                              Basic Sum Assured (Rs):                Due date of Premium:
 Policy Number:

 UIN:                                         Death Benefit: As per Risk Cover       Mode of payment of Premium:
                                              Schedule
 Plan Number
                                                                                     Due Date of Payment of Last
 Policy Term:                                 Single / Instalment premium for        Premium for Base Policy
                                              Base Policy(Rs.)                       (DD/MM/YYYY):
 Whether Single Premium / Limited
 Premium payment opted for?
                                              Total Single/Instalment Premium        Date of Birth of the Life
 Premium Payment Term:                        (Rs)                                   Assured(DD/MM/YYYY)::

 Date of Commencement of                      (Taxes, if any, as applicable from
 Policy(DD/MM/YYYY):                          time to time are charged extra)        Age of the Life Assured:

 Date of Commencement of
 Risk(DD/MM/YYYY):                                                                   Whether Age admitted?

 Date of Maturity(DD/MM/YYYY):

 Proposal No:

 Date of Proposal(DD/MM/YYYY):

 Date of issuance of policy(DD/MM/YYYY):

 Name , Gender and Address of the Proposer               Name, Gender and Address of the Life Assured




Details of Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938
Type of Nomination:
  Nominee(s)          Nominee’s       Percentage      Relationship to the Life Assured   Appointee Name [in case
Name                  Age      (in       Share                                           the Nominee is a minor]
                      Years)




 Period during which premiums are   Till the stipulated due date of last premium or earlier death of the Life
 payable in case of Limited         Assured
 Premium Payment
 Dates when premiums are payable    On the stipulated due date in ………………..
 in case of Limited Premium Payment

Signed on behalf of the Corporation at the above mentioned Branch Office, whose address and e-mail ID are given
on the first page and to which all communications relating to the policy should be addressed.

Date: (DD/MM/YYYY)

Examined by:

Form No.:                                                           Chief/ Sr. /Branch Manager


   LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)              Page 4 of 19
                                           Risk Cover Schedule
                                  (Interest rate of XX % per annum)
                Policy Year                            Sum Assured on Death (Rs.)
                      1
                      2
                      3




                     20
                     21




                     40




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)           Page 5 of 19
                                           PART– B: DEFINITIONS

    The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under:

1. Age is the age last birthday of the Life Assured at the time of commencement of the policy.
2. Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if the benefit
    becomes payable to the nominee and nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment.
3. Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an Assignment.
4. Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee”. Assignment should be in
    accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time.
5. Base Policy is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefits referred to in this Policy Document.
6. Basic Sum Assured means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder at the time of
    taking the policy.
7. Beneficiary/Claimant means the person(s)/entity who is/are entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The
    Beneficiary to whom benefits are payable is the Proposer or Life Assured or his Assignee under Section 38 of
    the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time or Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act,
    1938, as amended from time to time or proved Executors or Administrators or other Legal Representatives who
    should take out representation to his/ her Estate or limited to the moneys payable under this Policy from any
    Court of any State or Territory of the Union of India, as applicable.
8. Continued Insurability is the determination of insurability of Life Assured/Proposer on revival of policy to the
    satisfaction of the Corporation based on the information, documents and reports that are already available and
    any additional information in this regard if and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of
    the Corporation at the time of revival.
9. Corporation means the Life Insurance Corporation of India established under Section 3 of the Life Insurance
    Corporation Act, 1956.
10. Date of Commencement of Policy is the start date of this Policy.
11. Date of Commencement of risk is the date on which the Corporation accepts the risk for insurance (cover) as
    evidenced in the Schedule of the policy.
12. Date of issuance of policy is a date when a proposal after underwriting is accepted as a policy and this
    contract gets effected.
13. Date of Maturity means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term expires.
14. Death Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on death of the Life Assured, as specified in Condition 1.A of
    Part C of this Policy Document.
15. Discharge formis the form to be filled by policyholder/claimant to claim the death benefit/refund under the
    policy.
16. Due Date (applicable in case of Limited Premium payment) means a fixed date on which the policy
    premium is due and payable by the policyholder.
17. Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any additions, amendments or
    modifications agreed to or issued by the Corporation.
18. Extra premium means a charge due to underwriting decision, for any additional risk not provided for, in
    minimum contract premium
19. Free Look Period is the period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the
    Policy Document, whichever is earlier, by the Policyholder to review the terms and conditions of this policy and
    where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and conditions, he/ she has the option to return this
    policy as detailed in Condition 7 of Part D of this Policy Document.
20. Government Security (G-Sec) in this Policy Document refers to the tradeable instruments issued by Central
    Government for various durations, declared as benchmark securities corresponding to the stated tenors, by
    Reserve Bank of India.
21. Grace period, for other than single premium policies, means the time granted by the insurer from the due date
    for the payment of premium, without any penalty or late fee, during which time the policy is considered to be in-
    force with the risk cover without any interruption as per the terms and conditions of the Policy.
22. In-force policy means a policy in which all the due premiums have been paid and the premiums are not
    outstanding beyond grace period.
23. IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India earlier called as Insurance Regulatory
    and Development Authority (IRDA).
24. Lapse is the status of the Policy when due premium is not paid within the grace period.
25. Life Assured is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted.
26. Maturity Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on maturity, as specified in Condition 1.B of Part C of this
    Policy Document.
27. Material information shall mean all important, essential and relevant information and documents
    explicitly sought by the Corporation in the proposal form.
    The information already known to the Policyholder/Life Assured at the time of obtaining a policy which has a
LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                 Page 6 of 19
    bearing on underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted constitutes material information.
28. Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) who is(are)named as “Nominee(s)” in the proposal form
    or subsequently included/ changed by an endorsement. Nomination should be in accordance with provisions of
    Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time.
29. Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) under this
    Policy who is (are) authorised to receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy and to give a valid
    discharge to the Corporation on settlement of the claim.
30. Non-Par products means Products where policies are not entitled for any share in surplus (profits) during the
    term of the policy.
    Under such non-par policies, the benefits payable on death or maturity are guaranteed and fixed as per the
    terms and conditions of the policy.
31. Policy Anniversary means one year from the date of commencement of the Policy and the same date falling
    each year thereafter, till the Date of Maturity.
32. Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the Corporation
    which is a legal contract between the Policyholder and the Corporation.
33. Policyholder is the legal owner of this policy.
34. Policy term is the period, in years, as chosen by the policyholder and mentioned in the Schedule, commencing
    from the Date of commencement of policy and ending on the Date of Maturity.
35. Policy year is the period between two consecutive policy anniversaries. This period includes the first day and
    excludes the next policy anniversary day.
36. Premium is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder either as a Single Premium or at specified
    times periodically as mentioned in the Schedule of this Policy Document to secure the benefits under the policy.
    The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy Document does not include any taxes which are payable
    separately.
37. Premium Paying Term means the period, in years, during which premium is payable.
38. Proposer is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal.
39. Pure risk products means insurance products (without any savings element) where the payment of agreed
    amount is assured on the happening of death of the life assured within the term of the policy.
40. Revival of a policy means restoration of the policy, which was discontinued due to the non-payment of
    premium, by the insurer with all the benefits mentioned in the Policy Document upon the receipt of all the
    premiums due and other charges or late fee, if any, during the Revival Period, as per the terms and conditions
    of the policy, upon being satisfied as to the Continued Insurability of the Life Assured.
41. Revival Period means the period of five consecutive complete years from the date of First Unpaid Premium,
    during which period the policyholder is entitled to revive the policy which was discontinued due to the non-
    payment of premium.
42. Risk Cover Schedule shows the amount payable on death of Life Assured during each policy year as
    specified in Condition 1Aof Part C of this Policy Document.
43. Schedule is the part of Policy Document that gives the specific details of your policy.
44. Single Premium shall be the premium amount payable excluding taxes and underwriting extra premiums.
45. Sum Assured on Death means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on
    death of life assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy as mentioned in Condition 1.A of
    Part C of this Policy Document.
46. Surrender means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire policy before expiry of the policy term.
47. Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of surrender in accordance with the
    terms and conditions of the policy.
48. Total Premiums Paid means the total of all premiums paid under the base product excluding any extra
    premium and taxes, if collected explicitly.
49. Underwriting is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the cost of the cover
    is proportionate to the risks faced by the individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on
    acceptance or rejection of cover as well as applicability of suitable premium or modified terms, if any, is taken.
50. UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI.




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 7 of 19
                                                PART– C: BENEFITS

1. The following benefits are payable under an in-force policy:

A) Death Benefit:
    Death benefit payable, on death of the Life Assured, during the policy term after the date of commencement of
    risk, but before the stipulated Date of Maturity provided the policy is in-force shall be “Sum Assured on
    Death”.

    Under Limited premium payment policy, “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the higher of:
            105% of “Total Premiums Paid” upto the date of death; or
            Absolute amount assured to be paid on death


    Under Single premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as:
            Absolute amount assured to be paid on death

    Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be as specified in the Risk Cover Schedule. :

    Risk Cover Schedule shall be based on the Basic Sum Assured, Policy Term and Interest Rate chosen by the
    Policyholder. The available interest rates for Risk cover Schedule are 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%,10%,11% and 12% p.a.
    irrespective of the interest rate charged by the loan provider on the loan availed by the Policyholder, The Risk
    Cover Schedule shall show the Sum Assured on Death for each Policy Year and shall be based on the
    chosen interest rate p.a. effective on an equated yearly repayment basis, irrespective of the actual loan
    repayment. At the inception, the Sum Assured on Death shall be equal to the Basic Sum Assured and
    subsequently at each Policy Year, Sum Assured on Death shall be as mentioned in the Risk Cover
    Schedule. Death Benefit as specified in the Risk Cover Schedule may be higher or lower than the actual
    outstanding loan.

B) Maturity Benefit:
    No Maturity Benefit shall be payable on the Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity.

2. Payment of Premiums (Applicable in case of Limited Premium payment policies only):
  (a) The policyholder has to pay the Premium on the due dates as specified in the Schedule of this Policy
      Document along with applicable taxes, if any, from time to time.

  (b) In case of death of Life Assured under an in-force policy wherein all the premiums due till the date of death
      have been paid and where the mode of payment of premium is other than yearly, balance premium(s), if any,
      falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary shall be deducted from the claim
      amount.

  The Corporation does not have any obligation to issue a notice that premium is due or for the amount that is due.

3. Grace Period(Applicable in case of Limited Premium payment policies only):
   A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of yearly or half yearly premiums from the date of First
   Unpaid Premium. If the premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses.

   If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the premium then due,
   the policy will still be valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid premium as also the
   balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary.

                        PART – D: CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS

1. Proof of Age:
   The Premium payable under the Base Policy have been calculated on the age of the Life Assured as declared in
   the Proposal Form.

  In case, the age of Life Assured is mis-stated in the Proposal Form and correct age is found to be different
  (higher or lower) than such age, without prejudice to the Corporation’s other rights and remedies, including the
  provisions under Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, Corporation shall check the eligibility of Life
  Assured based on the correct age as on the date of commencement of policy and the following action shall be
  taken:

 LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 8 of 19
  If the Life Assured remains eligible for Base Policy:

  Subject to the then existing underwriting norms, the premium for the Base Policy shall be recalculated on the
  Basic Sum Assured for the correct age and the revised premium(s) shall be payable by the policyholder under
  the Base Policy. Further, accumulated difference between the premiums for the correct age and the original
  premiums, from the commencement of the Base Policy upto the date of payment of revised premium shall be
  paid to the Corporation with interest at such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time. Any outstanding
  premium and/or interest, if unpaid the same shall be recoverable from any claim proceeds payable under the
  policy.

  If the correct age is found to be lower than the declared age, excess Premium for Base Policy premium collected
  shall be refunded without interest.

  If the Life Assured is ineligible for Base Policy:

  Base Policy shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid towards Base Policy shall be refunded without interest
  subject to deduction of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium for the period of cover, applicable
  taxes and charges for medical examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty, incurred under the policy. The
  policy shall terminate on said payment.

2. Forfeiture and Non-forfeiture Regulations:
   Forfeiture Regulations:

  i. In case of Limited Premium payment policies, if the premium has not been paid in respect of this policy and
     any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits shall cease after the expiry of grace period from
     the date of First Unpaid Premium and nothing shall be payable, and the Premiums paid thitherto are also not
     refundable.

  ii. Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be
      contravened or in case it is found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal,
      personal statement, declaration and connected documents or any material information is withheld, then and
      in every such case this policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit in virtue of this policy shall be subject
      to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act , 1938, as amended from time to time.

  Non –forfeiture Regulations:

  Not applicable as there is no paid up value available under this plan.

3. Revival of lapsed Policies (Applicable for Limited Premium policies):
   An Insurance Policy would lapse on non-payment of due premium within the days of grace. A policy in lapsed
   condition may be revived during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period and before the
   date of maturity as the case may be. The revival shall be effected on payment of all the arrears of premium(s)
   together with interest (compounding half yearly) at such rate as may be fixed by the Corporation from time to time
   and on satisfaction of Continued Insurability of the Life Assured on the basis of information, documents and
   reports that are already available and any additional information in this regard if and as may be required in
   accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the time of revival, being furnished by the
   Policyholder/Life Assured.

  The Corporation, however, reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified terms or decline
  the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of the discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is
  approved, accepted and revival receipt is issued by the Corporation

  The rate of interest applicable for revival under this plan for every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April
  shall not exceed 10 year G-Sec Rate p.a. compounding half yearly as at the last trading day of previous financial
  year plus 3% or the yield earned on the Corporation’s Non-Linked Non-Participating Fund plus 1%, whichever is
                                                         st                 th
  higher. For the 12 month period commencing from 1 May, 2024 to 30 April, 2025, the applicable interest rate
  shall be 9.50% p.a. compounding half yearly. The basis for determination of interest rate for policy revival is
  subject to change.

  If a lapsed policy is not revived within the revival period but before the Date of Maturity, the policy will
  automatically terminate and an amount equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable..




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                 Page 9 of 19
4. Surrender:
   A. No surrender value will be available under this Plan.

  B. However, on receipt of request for surrender of policy by the policyholder, an amount equal to Unexpired
     Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable as under:

     a) Single Premium Policies:

         In case of Single Premium, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable on surrender of the
         policy anytime during the Policy Term. The Unexpired Risk Premium Value shall be calculated by using
         the following formula:

         K * (100 – R) % * [(n - t) / n] * Ps * (Basic Sum Assured /1000)

         Where;
                                     st
         K =        75% during 1 policy year
                    80% during 2nd policy year
                                    rd
                    85% during 3 policy year
                    90% thereafter
        R =         High Sum Assured rebate applied to the original policy at inception
        n =         Original Policy Term
        t =         Policy year from inception during which the policy is surrendered
        Ps =        Tabular single premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured for the original single premium
                    policy for original policy term n years

     b) Limited Premium Payment:

         In case of Limited Premium Payment, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any shall only be payable if full
         premiums have been paid for at least:

         i) Two consecutive years in case of Premium Paying Term equal to 5 years.
         ii) Three consecutive years in case of Premium Paying Term equal to 10 years and 15 years.

        In case of surrender of an in-force policy, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable and
        policy shall terminate.

        In case of a lapsed policy, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable on the earliest
        occurrence of following and the policy shall terminate:
           -On death of the Life Assured during the revival period; or
           -On surrender of the policy during the revival period; or
           -On expiry of revival period, if the policy is not revived.

         The amount of Unexpired Risk Premium Value shall be calculated by using the following formula:

         During Premium Paying Term

         Z * (100 – R) % * d * (Pppt – Pn) * (Basic Sum Assured /1000)

         After Premium Paying Term

         i) If all due premiums have been paid:
              Z * (100 – R) % * ppt * (Pppt – Pn) * [(n - t) / (n - ppt)] * (Basic Sum Assured /1000)

        ii) If all due premiums have not been paid:
             Z * (100 – R) % * d * (Pppt – Pn) * (Basic Sum Assured /1000)

         Where,
                              nd                 th
         Z = 30% during 2 policy year to 4 policy year for Premium Paying Term 5 years
                         th               th
             50% during 5 policy year to 9 policy year for Premium Paying Term 5 years
                              nd                 th
               65% during 2        policy year to 9 policy year for Premium Paying Term 10 years & 15 years


LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                 Page 10 of 19
                   70% during 10th policy year to 14th policy year for all Premium Paying Terms
                   75% thereafter for all Premium Paying Terms

            R = High Sum Assured rebate applied to the original policy at inception
            t = Policy year from inception during which the policy is surrendered (in case of fully paid up policies)
            d = Number of full years for which premiums have been paid
            ppt = Premium Paying Term of the original Policy
            Pppt = Tabular annual premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured in respect of the original policy i.e.
                   based on the life assured’s Age at entry, original policy term and premium paying term
            Pn = Tabular annual premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured for regular premium policy
                   corresponding to the life assured’s Age at entry and original policy term n years

        The premium mentioned above is exclusive of taxes and underwriting extra, if any.

        The above calculated amount of Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable only if it is positive; and if negative,
        nothing shall be recovered from the policyholder.

     5. Policy Loan:
        No loan will be available under this policy

     6. Termination of Policy:
        The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following
        events:
            a) The date on which death benefit is paid; or
            b) The date on which an amount equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, , is settled, in case of
            surrender of policy ; or
            c) The date of maturity; or
            d) On expiry of Revival Period, if the policy has not been revived within the revival period; or
            e) On payment of free look cancellation amount; or
            f) In the event of forfeiture as specified in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document.

7. Free look period:
   During the Free Look Period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of Policy
   Document, whichever is earlier, by the Policyholder, if the Policyholder is not satisfied with the Terms and
   Conditions of the policy, he/she may return the policy to the Corporation stating the reasons for objections. On
   receipt of the same, the Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the amount of premium deposited after
   deducting the proportionate risk premium for the period of cover, expenses incurred on medical examination (
   including special reports, if any) and charges for stamp duty.

8. Option in case of early repayment of loan:
   If a Life Assured repays the outstanding loan before the end of the policy term, he/she shall have the following
   two options:
    To surrender his/her insurance cover.
       On such cancellation, an amount equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, as specified in Condition
       4 of Part D of this Policy Document shall be payable.

         To continue the policy till the end of the Policy Term.
          In case of death of the Life Assured during the policy term, the death benefit shall be payable to the
          nominee as per Risk Cover Schedule.
                                                         PART E

                                                      Not Applicable.

                                    PART – F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.      a) Assignments:
          Assignment is allowed under this plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to
          time. The current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this Policy Document. The notice
          of assignment should be submitted for registration to the office of the Corporation, where the policy is
          serviced.

    b) Nominations:
        Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per Section 39 of the
        Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time.The current provisions of Section 39 are contained in
 LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 11 of 19
       Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. The notice of nomination or change of nomination should be submitted
       for registration to the office of the Corporation, where the policy is serviced. In registering nomination the
       Corporation does not accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to its validity or legal effect.

2. Suicide Exclusion:
   Notwithstanding the provision of benefits payable on death mentioned anywhere in this Policy Document, the
   provisions related to claim payment in case of death due to suicide shall be subject to the conditions as
   specified herein under:

    Under Limited Premium Payment policy:

    If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of
    commencement of risk or from the date of revival of the policy as applicable, the Nominee or Beneficiary of the
    Life Assured shall be entitled to 80% of the total premiums paid (excluding any extra premium and taxes, if
    collected explicitly) till the date of death, provided the policy is in-force

    This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed policy as nothing is payable under such policies.

    Under Single Premium policy:

    If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of
    commencement of risk, the Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life Assured shall be entitled to 80% of the Single
    Premium paid excluding any taxes, extra premium, if any.

3. Tax:
   Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other
   constitutional tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to
   time.

    The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums
    including extra premium(s) if any, which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the
    premiums payable by the policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of
    any benefits payable under the plan.

4. Normal requirements for a claim:

    (a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case of
        death of the Life Assured shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Corporation, accompanied with original
        Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank
        account, proof of title, proof of death, medical treatment prior to the death (if any), school/ college/
        employer's certificate, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Corporation. If the age is not
        admitted under the policy, the proof of age of the Life assured shall also be submitted.

        In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the Corporation may call for
        the copies of First Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Corporation may
        also call for additional documents as may be required by them.

        Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of
        the insured event resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time.

    (b) Surrender Claim: In case of surrender of the policy, the Life Assured shall submit the discharge form
        along with the original policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim
        amount to the bank account besides proof of age, if the age is not admitted earlier.

    In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as per law
    shall also be required to be submitted.

5. Legislative Changes:
   The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this policy are subject to
   variation in accordance with the relevant Legislation & Regulations.

6. Benefit illustration: Your customized Benefit Illustration, if applicable, is enclosed to this Policy document.

7. Issuance of Duplicate Policy:
   The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of policy preparation charges, policy
   stamp charges and applicable taxes, if any, which are specified from time to time* upon loss of Policy
LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)            Page 12 of 19
   Document along with other requirements as may be prescribed by the Corporation .

   *As on January, 2024, the applicable duplicate policy preparation charge is Rs 75.00. In addition, Indemnity
   Bond notarized as per requisite stamp value is also required and the stamp fee for the same shall be borne by
   the Policyholder.

8. Governing Law and Jurisdiction:
   The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any
   disputes arising under the Policy


                                  PART – G: STATUTORY PROVISIONS


   Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938:
   The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time, shall be applicable. The
   current provisions are contained in Annexure-3 of this Policy Document.


   Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
   Of the Corporation:
   The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs) at Branch/ Divisional/ Zonal/ Central Office to
   redress grievances of customers. The customers can visit our website (https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances)
   for names and contact details of the GROs and other information related to grievances.

   For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation has introduced Customer friendly
   Integrated Complaint Management System through our Customer Portal (website) which is
   http://www.licindia.in, where a registered policy holder can directly register complaint/ grievance and track its
   status. Customers can also contact at e-mail id co_complaints@licindia.com for redressal of any grievances.

   Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option of referring their cases for
   review to Zonal Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee or Central Office Claims Dispute Redressal
   Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court Judge is member of each of the Claims Dispute Redressal
   Committees.


   Of IRDAI:
   In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from us within 15 days,
   then the customer may approach the Grievance Cell of the IRDAI through any of the following modes:

         Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA
           SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA))
         Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in
         Register the complaint online at https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/
         Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter:
          General Manager, Policyholders Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, Insurance
          Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Survey No.115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda,
          Gachibowli, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana.


   Of Ombudsman:
   For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who provides
   for low cost and speedy arbitration to customers.

   The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or disputes
   relating to the matters such as:

   (a) Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the Insurance
       Regulatory and Development Authority of India Act,1999
   (b) Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer;
   (c) Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy;
   (d) Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the Policy Document or policy contract;
   (e) Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim;
   (f) Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries;


LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)              Page 13 of 19
   (g) Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy which is not in
       conformity with the proposal form submitted by the proposer;
   (h) Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general insurance including
       health insurance; and
   (i) Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 or the regulations,
       circulars , guidelines or instructions issued by IRDAI from time to time or the terms and conditions of the
       policy contract, in so far as they relate to issues mentioned at clauses (a) to (f)

   Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions mentioned in this Document,
   the English version shall stand valid.

   YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN,
   RETURN IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION.




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)              Page 14 of 19
                                                                                                           Annexure 1

   Assignment - As per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time.

   (1) A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without consideration,
   may be made only by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument, signed in either case
   by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorized agent and attested by at least one witness,
   specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons thereof, the antecedents of the
   assignee and the terms on which the assignment is made.

   (2) An insurer may, accept the transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made under
   sub-section(1), where it has sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is not bonafide or is
   not in the interest of the policyholder or in public interest or is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy.

   (3) The insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for such
   refusal and communicate the same to the policyholder not later than thirty days from the date of the policy-
   holder giving notice of such transfer or assignment.

   (4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may
   within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer containing reasons
   for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority.

   (5) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and effectual upon
   the execution of such endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the transfer or assignment is
   in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as against an insurer, and shall not confer upon the transferee or
   assignee, or his legal representative, any right to sue for the amount of such policy or the moneys secured
   thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument
   itself or a copy thereof certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents
   have been delivered to the insurer:

   Provided that where the insurer maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall be
   delivered only at the place where the policy is being serviced.

   (6) The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer shall regulate the
   priority of all claims under a transfer or assignment as between persons interested in the policy; and where
   there is more than one instrument of transfer or assignment the priority of the claims under such instruments
   shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in sub-section (5) are delivered:

   Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between assignees, the dispute shall be referred
   to the Authority.

   (7) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer
   or assignment together with the date thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on the
   request of the person by whom the notice was given, or of the transferee or assignee, on payment of such fee
   as may be specified by the regulations, grant a written acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any
   such acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has duly received the notice to
   which such acknowledgment relates.

   (8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall, from the date of the
   receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), recognize the transferee or assignee named in the notice as
   the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under the policy, and such person shall be subject to all
   liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject at the date of the transfer or assignment
   and may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the
   policy without obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings.

   Explanation – Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that the
   assignment or transfer is conditional in terms of subsection (10) hereunder, every assignment or transfer shall
   be deemed to be an absolute assignment or transfer and the assignee or transferee, as the case may be, shall
   be deemed to be the absolute assignee or transferee respectively.

   (9) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life insurance under an assignment or
   transfer effected prior to the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be
   affected by the provisions of this section.

LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 15 of 19
   (10) Notwithstanding any law or custom having the force of law to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a
   person made upon the condition that-

   a.      The proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the policyholder or the nominee or nominees in
   the event of either the assignee or transferee predeceasing the insured; or

   b.      The insured surviving the term of the policy , shall be valid:

   Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender a policy.

   (11) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), the liability
   of the insurer shall be limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policyholder
   shall not be entitled to further assign or transfer the residual amount payable under the same policy.




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)               Page 16 of 19
                                                                                                            Annexure 2

   Nomination - As Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time.


   (1) The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any time before
   the policy matures for payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured by the policy
   shall be paid in the event of his death:

   Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the policy holder to appoint any person in the
   manner laid down by the insurer, to receive the money secured by policy in the event of his death during the
   minority of the nominee.

   (2) Any such nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy itself, be
   made by an endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer and registered by him in the records
   relating to the policy and any such nomination may at any time before the policy matures for payment be
   cancelled or changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will, as the case may be, but unless
   notice in writing of any such cancellation or change has been delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be
   liable for any payment under the policy made bona fide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy
   or registered in records of the insurer.

   (3) The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a nomination
   or a cancellation or change thereof, and may charge such fee as may be specified by regulations for registering
   such cancellation or change.

   (4) A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall automatically cancel a
   nomination:

   Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of the
   assignment, in consideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy within its surrender
   value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall not cancel a nomination, but shall affect the rights of
   the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in the policy:

   Provided further that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in consideration of a loan
   advanced by the transferee or assignee to the policyholder, shall not cancel the nomination but shall affect the
   rights of the nominee only to the extent of the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the
   policy:

   Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the transfer or
   assignment, the same nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is reassigned by the
   assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of the policyholder on repayment of loan other than on a
   security of policy to the insurer.

   (5) Where the policy matures for payment during the lifetime of the person whose life is insured or where the
   nominee or, if there are more nominees than one, all the nominees die before the policy matures for payment,
   the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to the policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or
   the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be.

   (6) Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the person
   whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor or survivors.

   (7) Subject to the other provisions of this section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on his own life
   nominates his parents, or his spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any of them, the nominee
   or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the insurer to him or them under sub-
   section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the nature of his title to the policy,
   could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee.

   (8) Subject as aforesaid, where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees,
   to whom sub-section (7) applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before the amount secured by
   the policy is paid, the amount secured by the policy, or so much of the amount secured by the policy as
   represents the share of the nominee or nominees so dying (as the case may be), shall be payable to the heirs
   or legal representatives of the nominee or nominees or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may
   be, and they shall be beneficially entitled to such amount.
LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                Page 17 of 19
   (9) Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to be paid out
   of the proceeds of any policy of life insurance.

   (10) The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for payment
   after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015.

   (11) Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his policy has not
   been made to him because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the proceeds and
   benefit of his policy.

   (12) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 6 of the
   Married Women’s Property Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied;

   Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the Insurance Laws
   (Amendment) Act, 2015, in favour of the wife of the person who has insured his life or of his wife and children
   or any of them is expressed, whether or not on the face of the policy, as being made under this section, the
   said section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not to have applied to the policy.




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)              Page 18 of 19
                                                                                                            Annexure 3

   Section 45 as per the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time.

   (1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three
   years from the date of the policy, i.e. from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of
   risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later.

   (2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance
   of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to
   the policy, whichever is later on the ground of fraud:

   Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or
   nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based.
   Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts
   committed by the insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue
   a life insurance policy:-
   (a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true;
   (b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;
   (c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
   (d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.

   Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud,
   unless the circumstances of the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured or his
   agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself, equivalent to speak.

   (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on
   the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of a material fact was true
   to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that
   such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer:

   Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not
   alive.
   Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the purpose of
   the formation of the contract, to be the agent of the insurer.

   (4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance
   of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to
   the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the
   expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of
   which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued:

   Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or
   nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy
   of life insurance is based:

   Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a
   material fact, and not on the ground of fraud the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation
   shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period
   of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.
   Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of fact shall not be
   considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the
   insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said fact no life insurance policy would have been
   issued to the insured.

   (5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do
   so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted
   on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.




LIC’s Yuva Credit Life (UIN: 512N357V01)                Page 19 of 19
